docs: security docs (#291)
canonical/wordpress-k8s-operator: docs/explanation/security-overview.md

# WordPress security overview

This explanation covers several security-related topics for the WordPress charm.

## Secrets

Secrets required to operate the WordPress application are generated by the WordPress
charm using the Python's secure `secrets` standard library. The following fields in the WordPress configuration are generated by the charm:
- auth_key
- secure_auth_key
- logged_in_key
- nonce_key
- auth_salt
- secure_auth_salt
- logged_in_salt
- nonce_salt

## Updates

> For security reasons, the WordPress charm does not allow updates of the WordPress application itself automatically.

Reviewer: WordPress cannot be upgraded from the web administration page primarily because it is containerized, so restarting the container reverts any changes made by the upgrade. And if there are multiple units, upgrading from the web administration page causes inconsistencies between units. The same applies to plugin and theme installation or upgrades.

# WordPress security overview

This explanation covers several security-related topics for the WordPress charm.

## Secrets

Secrets required to operate the WordPress application are generated by the WordPress
charm using the Python's secure `secrets` standard library. The following fields in the WordPress

> configuration are generated by the charm:

Reviewer 2: For my understanding: Are these configurations already available in WordPress? Or they're already available in the Python library? Or are they specific to the charm?

- auth_key
- secure_auth_key
- logged_in_key
- nonce_key
- auth_salt
- secure_auth_salt
- logged_in_salt
- nonce_salt

## Updates

> For security and synchronisation between Juju cahrm units, the WordPress charm does not allow
> updates of the WordPress application itself automatically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For security and synchronization between Juju charm units, the WordPress charm does not allow
automatic updates of the WordPress application itself.
```
Let me know if I understood what role "automatically" was playing in this sentence.

## Spam protection

The WordPress charm has built-in spam protection that can be activated by providing the 

> `wp_plugin_akismet_key` configuration option. For more information about Akismet spam protection,

Reviewer 2: I would link the how-to guide on this configuration here: https://charmhub.io/wordpress-k8s/docs/how-to-enable-antispam

see [https://akismet.com/](https://akismet.com/).

## Risks

### Application CVEs

WordPress can be vulnerable to new CVEs and may require updates to patch the CVEs. In case of an
exposure to a CVE, it is recommended that you update your WordPress charm and rotate the secrets.
See the [rotate-secrets](how-to/rotate-secrets.md) action in the how-to guide.

### Plugins installation

The plugins that have been by the users via the Web UI are periodically deleted by the charm during
the Juju hook events. There may be a risk of undesired plugins being installed for the duration of

> the charm until the next event.

Reviewer 2: Is there a recommendation we can provide to avoid this scenario?

Author: Unfortunately, there's no configuration to disallow administrators from doing such through the UI.

## Information security

By default, the WordPress charm configures the WordPress application to use the local container
storage for object data, including images and media files. This implies that any loss of data from

> the underlying filesystem will result in a loss of data from the WordPress application. To

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the underlying file system will result in a loss of data from the WordPress application. To
```

protect against this risk, you can configure the WordPress charm to store objects on an external

> storage system by configuring the `wp_plugin_openstack-objectstorage_config`. This configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
storage system by configuring [`wp_plugin_openstack-objectstorage_config`](https://charmhub.io/wordpress-k8s/configurations#wp_plugin_openstack-objectstorage_config). This configuration
```
